- My name is Anoop. I am a director of AI and
future technologies at Google. Director of AI and
future technologies means I focus on thinking about where AI and other technologies will be used to improve the user
experience in the future. 20 years ago, I did my PhD
in artificial intelligence and human computer interaction. If you told me 20 years
ago, we'd be seeing the type of artificial intelligence technology that we're seeing today, I
wouldn't have believed it. AI, I think right now,
is like a bullet train. Every week there's some
innovation that seems tremendous. It's actually very
difficult to keep up with it as a researcher enough so that, you know, sometimes I use AI
itself to help me keep track of summarizing the things
that are actually happening. It's hard to say if it's comparable to the birth of the internet since it's so early in its current form. But I would say that
the opportunity for AI to transform the way
individuals are working and also the way individuals
are learning is actually equal. AI tools are a fantastic way to improve your professional
growth and development. First is in just improving
your own productivity. Sitting down in front of
tools that you can use to help you draft a paper, to synthesize a set of
research that you're doing. AI can be used to help
you create new content and new designs. You can use image creation tools today to create ideas that are
in your imagination using just text-based prompts. AI assisted coding can actually help you tackle harder problems because what it does is
it'll give you suggestions for ways to approach certain problems as well as help you in the
skills you'll actually need to understand how to actually tackle them. There are tools today, they're actually easy to sit down and use. They can be very fun to use and then they can lead to
a transformative change. In recent times with the era
of large language models, I am using them to help
me draft, to write, to even edit what I've actually written, and I really find that capability
to help my productivity as well as help me become a better writer. I remember one article that I had to write and it was an article trying to describe what was happening in the AI industry, and I was at the end of the
day needing to complete this, and I said, "Okay, let
me sit down in front of the LLM and get some hints." And it probably saved
me most of my evening, to actually get the early drafts and early thinking collaboratively
with the AI system. All of those tools, they aren't
a replacement for what I do because I need my own
expertise to double check and collaborate with the AI systems. But you know, I do find
them actually quite helpful. The more I'm able to work on creative and in-depth tasks, really
the deep work that I'm able to do, the more satisfied
I am, really, in the work that I'm doing.