- Humans have used AI
in amazing ways already, and the technology continues
to improve every day. Consider the telephone. After its development, it became increasingly common to find telephones in
residences and workplaces. Later, this technology
evolved into the mobile phones that people could carry around with them and extend their ability to communicate whenever they needed to. And now people use smartphones
for a variety of purposes. AI has a similar potential for growth. Staying knowledgeable
about AI as it evolves can benefit you in the
workplace in multiple ways. You can use AI to improve
the quality of your work, and allow you to better meet your goals. For instance, if you're writing
a report for a team meeting, you can use AI to help you identify spelling and grammatical errors, or to suggest ways to
improve your writing. This can make your report
more understandable and increase the likelihood that your audience will be
responsive to your ideas. AI can also support your professional growth and development. You might leverage AI
to learn a new skill. For example, if you've wanted to learn how to write Python code, try using an AI tool like GitHub Copilot to answer your questions about
Python programming language. GitHub Copilot may also
give you suggestions about how to write code. Finally, developing AI-related skills may help lead to
professional opportunities. The demand for AI-related
professional skills is increasing across virtually every
American industrial sector. Therefore, growing your
AI knowledge and skills may create opportunities
for economic mobility. How can you leverage AI in your work? First, examine the tasks
you do on a typical day. Have you already learned
about any AI tools that can help you with these tasks? Second, analyze your
work process as a whole. Which parts of your workflow
typically cause problems or take a lot of time to complete? How might you leverage AI
to address these issues? Third, address challenges
in your work process whenever they arise. Perhaps your team is suddenly asked to take on a time-consuming new task that you've never performed before. If a problem like this occurs, consider augmenting your process with AI. For instance, now that you've learned that conversational AI
can summarize documents, if you encounter a task at
work that involves summarizing, think about including AI in that process. No matter how you incorporate
AI into your workflow, make sure you're highly
involved in this process. This means carefully considering if AI is suitable for your task, evaluating generated content, and verifying its accuracy
through credible sources, and editing any AI-generated content, rather than just copying and pasting it. I encourage you to begin assessing where you can start leveraging AI in your own work processes.