- I am Greg. I'm a Research Scientist at Google, and that means that I
try to build technologies and develop new ways to
make machines intelligent. So when I was a kid,
I watched a lot of TV, mostly kind of nerdy
educational programs, like NOVA and things like that, and I
became fascinated with physics and how the universe worked. And despite the fact that
this wasn't the sort of thing that most people in my family
did, I became convinced that I wanted to go to a
university and study physics. In the process of my education, I learned that the thing in the world that I was most interested
in understanding was actually the brain
and human cognition. And so I went to graduate
school in neuroscience. I met folks who were exploring not just how the brain worked, but how the brain could
teach us to build machines that were more intelligent. And I came to Google
to follow those ideas, to understand whether there
were ideas from biology and neuroscience that could
help us build machines that were smarter. The shift from machines
that only understand exactly what they're explicitly told to machines that can actually learn
from experience or data or mistakes has been nothing
less than transformational. Seeing how other people
use a piece of technology, use a tool, whether it's
AI or something else, gives you new ideas about how you might use that tool, right? It's almost like watching cooking shows. You don't have to make the same thing that the chef makes on the
show to learn something about how you could use this tool differently. I really encourage people to be educated about how the technology is useful, because there may be something
that's similar problem, even if it comes from a different field or a different industry. I think that the approach
to using AI in a new way for an application or a technology, it's actually relatively simple, which is that you should start with play. Start with trying to play with
a toy version of the problem and a toy solution, and see if you can make it work
in a simplified environment or at a small scale that
gives you confidence that you can try something bigger. Try it not for composing
an entire orchestral piece. Try it for just completing
a melody or a phrase, but if there's any advice at all, it's to try to appreciate the opportunity as broadly as you can and be
willing to try things again. And so there's really an
opportunity to be someone who makes a discovery, makes a discovery about how to use a tool
well, how to get a new effect with the technology, how to
use it for a new purpose. So whether you're building AI or discovering ways to use it, the opportunity for
innovation and creativity is in your hands, not anyone else's.