- Hi, I am Sharbani. I'm a senior director in the Core Machine
Learning Group at Google. The Core Machine Learning Group runs all of the infrastructure
that our science teams need to be able to build great
innovation like the PaLM model or the upcoming Gemini model. My background is I'm a
pretty standard-issue nerd. I've always loved science and math. I ended up studying physics
and mathematics undergrad. I worked in physics labs
all through college. I just gravitated to hard problems, and I think machine learning
is a field that is ripe with a lot of hard, high-impact problems. It's just mad, like how fast
things are accelerating. When you look at traditional
business planning and say, "Let's plan our long-term vision," right? So you're saying, "Okay, what's the right timeline for that?" Three years, right? We're looking at three months
as a long-term timeline because things are changing so quickly. So you see people starting to innovate and dream at a pace like never before. Access to AI has become so much easier for everyone in their everyday lives. The barriers to have to get it started or to figure out how it works just don't exist like they did before. And anybody can be interacting
with AI in a very natural, conversational way, which
just means having almost like that thought partner that's
just there alongside you. The best way to get started
with any of these AI tools is just to pick a problem you
have in your everyday life, try it out, see how it works. For me, one of the best
things about working in AI is all of the possibilities for the future that I get to dream about and
actually start delivering on. One of the most
inspirational things for me to really focus on when I
think about the customer needs that are really gonna drive
innovation in the future, is around accessibility. So like a classic everyday
world example of that is a curb cut at the corner of a street. When you have a sidewalk and you don't just have a step down, but you have almost kind of this ramp, that was made to help people
who are in wheelchairs be able to go up and down. When you then think about how
that helps everyday lives, that helps people with
strollers, wheelchairs, and it just makes everyone's life better. So I think about things
like on live video calls when you have live captioning, it can then be transformed into something that's not just being able to better read what someone is saying, but
then if someone's speaking a different language,
you can still be speaking in one language and they
can be speaking in another, and you can still be having
a real-time communication. You think about how it
can break down barriers and improve access and independence across everything that we
have to do in our daily lives, the possibilities are endless.