- To start innovating with AI, consider what tasks
you need to accomplish. For example, think about
what slows down your work. Then think about how incorporating
AI into your workflow may help you meet your needs. For inspiration, let's discuss some
innovative types of AI models and explore their possibilities. Med-PaLM is a large language model that is designed to
answer medical questions. It was built based on
Google's existing LLM PaLM, but it was adapted for
answering medical questions through training with clinicians. The Med-PaLM model is exciting because it demonstrates the potential for a model that already exists like PaLM to be specialized through training with
experts in the field. Consider how workers in the healthcare industry
may leverage this model and how other industries might use their own specialized models. Some machine learning and AI
tools analyze just one modality or form of data in their input. A multimodal model is an AI model that can accept and learn
from multiple types of input, such as images, video, or audio. AI tools that incorporate
multimodal models can perform additional
tasks beyond what a model that analyzes just one
type of data can do. Med-PaLM has a multimodal
version called Med-PaLM M. As a multimodal model,
Med-PaLM M can do more than answer text-based medical questions. It can interpret several
types of biomedical data, including language, medical
imaging, and genomic data. This expands the model's potential for use in the medical field. Let's consider the following scenario. You're attending a presentation, there's a large audience, and everyone is so interested in every word the speaker has to say. Observing the speaker might inspire you. Even if you don't have the expertise to speak on the same topic, you might adopt some of the
techniques the speaker uses. Likewise, you can find
inspiration in how others use AI. AI is used innovatively
across multiple industries, and more and more, humans are applying AI to create solutions to complex problems. Robotics is another industry where AI is frequently used in novel ways. The startup company
Refiberd is applying AI to sensor technology to
help reduce textile waste. Refiberd developed an AI system that uses sensors to identify and organize different
textiles in recycling plants based on their materials. This helps reduce the amount
of waste in recycling plants. Textiles made from certain
materials can be sent to facilities that can process them. You can apply ideas from this
example to your own work. Even if you don't have a robot or a need to sort physical
objects in your work, you might be inspired to use
AI for sorting in another way. For instance, you might use AI
to organize workplace tasks. Are there other kinds of sorting or organizational tasks
AI could help you with? There are so many ways humans
use AI to address questions and improve the lives of others. I encourage you to keep exploring how you too can augment your work with AI.