- Have you ever created something new by building upon previous examples? Perhaps you used a well-received report as a reference when
writing a similar report, or maybe you used a relevant
and engaging website as a model when designing
your own website. Examples are also useful for LLMs. Including examples in your
prompt can help an LLM better respond to your request, and can be an especially
effective strategy to get your desired output. We're going to explore how
to use examples in prompting, but first, let's briefly discuss
the technical term "shot." In prompt engineering, the word "shot" is often used as a synonym
for the word "example." There are different names
for prompting techniques based on the number of
examples given to the LLM. Zero-shot prompting is a technique that provides no examples in a prompt, while one-shot prompting
provides one example, and few-shot prompting is a technique that provides two or more
examples in a prompt. Because examples aren't
included in zero-shot prompts, the model is expected to perform the task based only on its training data, and the task description
included in the prompt. Zero-shot prompting is
most likely to be effective when you're seeking simple
and direct responses. Zero-shot prompting may not be effective for tasks that require the LLM to respond in a more
specific, nuanced way. Few shot prompting can
improve in LLMs performance by providing additional context
and examples in your prompt. These additional examples can help clarify the desired format,
phrasing, or general pattern. Few-shot prompting can be
useful for a range of tasks. For example, you might
use few-shot prompting to generate content in a particular style. Let's say you work for an online retailer. You need to write a product description for a new skateboard. You already have descriptions
for existing products, such as a bicycle and roller blades. You want the skateboard description to follow a similar style and format. We'll start with a prompt that begins with some
general instructions. "Write a one-sentence
description of a product. It should contain two adjectives
that describe the product." We also specify that we want Gemini to review the examples we provide, and write the description of the skateboard in the same style. Because this is a few-shot prompt, we need to provide examples
that model the style we want. Each example contains a label, indicating the product being described, a bicycle and roller blades. And each description is one sentence long and contains two adjectives, "sleek" and "durable" for the bicycle, and "smooth" and "stylish"
for the roller blades. Next, we type the label "skateboard." When we add this label and leave the product description blank, we indicate to Gemini that
we want it to complete the description of the
skateboard like it did with the other two product descriptions. Let's review our output. The output offers a product
description of the skateboard that meets the criteria we requested, and is in the same
writing style and format as the examples we included in our prompt. In this case, two examples were enough to obtain useful results, but there is no definitive rule for the optimal number of
examples to include in a prompt. Some LLMs can accurately
reproduce patterns using only a few examples,
while other LLMs need more. At the same time, if you
include too many examples an LLM's responses may become
less flexible and creative and they may reproduce
the examples too closely. Experiment with the number
of examples to include to get the best results
for your specific task. Now you know a prompting technique that will help you get
better quality output. Few-shot prompting is
an effective strategy that can help you guide an LLM to generate more useful responses.