- There are multiple ways to
leverage an LLM's capabilities that work to boost
productivity and creativity. A common one is content creation. You can use an LLM to create
emails, plans, ideas, and more. As an example, you could
ask an LLM to help you write an article about a work-related topic. Let's prompt Gemini to create an outline for an article on data
visualization best practices. The article is for
entry-level business analysts. Notice that the prompt
begins with the verb create. It's often helpful to
include a verb in your prompt to guide the LLM to produce useful output for your intended task. The output provides a helpful outline for a first draft of the article. You can also use an LLM for summarization. An LLM can summarize a lengthy
document's main points. For example, you might
ask Gemini to summarize a detailed paragraph about
project management strategies. We'll begin the prompt
with the verb summarize and specify that we want the
output to be a single sentence. Then we'll include the paragraph we want Gemini to summarize. The output provides a
convenient one-sentence summary of the paragraph. While this example shows
how you can summarize a single paragraph, you can ask an LLM to summarize longer
text and documents too. Classification is another possible use. For instance, you might prompt the LLM to classify the sentiment
or feeling in a group of customer reviews as
positive, negative, or neutral. Let's prompt Gemini to
classify customer reviews about a retail website's
new design as positive, negative, or neutral. The prompt includes the verb
classify to guide the output. The prompt also contains the reviews. In this example, there are four reviews. The output accurately
classifies the first two reviews as negative, the third as positive, and the fourth as neutral. Consider how you could leverage an LLM to efficiently complete
large classification tasks. Or you can use an LLM for extraction, which involves pulling data
from text and transforming it into a structured format
that's easier to understand. Suppose you have a report
that provides information about a global organization. You can prompt Gemini to
extract all mentions of cities and revenue in the report
and place them in a table. Then we'll include the
report in our prompt. Please be aware that you should not input confidential information into LLMs. But in this example, the
report is not confidential. The output displays a table with columns for city and revenue. This presents the information
in a well-organized format that's easy to review. Another use is translation. You can leverage an LLM to translate text between different languages. For example, you might ask
Gemini to translate the title of a training session
from English to Spanish. The output includes a variety
of Spanish translations to choose from and explains the reasoning behind each translation. This information can help you choose the most useful option for your audience. Or you can use an LLM for
editing, such as to change the tone of a section of
text from formal to casual and to check if the text
is grammatically correct. For example, Gemini can help
you edit a technical analysis about electric vehicles
by making the language more accessible for a
non-technical audience. We'll start the prompt with the verb edit and specify that the
language should be easy for a non-technical
audience to understand. After this, we'll include
the technical analysis. The output provides a
version of the analysis that an audience less familiar with the technical details can understand. This is just one example of how an LLM can help you edit documents. LLMs can quickly customize
the tone, length, and format of documents to fit your needs. One more use for an LLM we'll
discuss is problem-solving. You can utilize an LLM
to generate solutions for a variety of workplace challenges. When planning a company
event, for example, you could prompt the LLM
to find menu solutions that accommodate the food
restrictions of multiple guests while following a holiday-themed menu. And here's another example. Let's say you're an entrepreneur who recently launched a
new copy editing service. Let's ask Gemini to solve a problem related to the copy editing service. We'll ask for suggestions for
increasing the client base. The output provides specific suggestions for reaching new clients,
optimizing services, and growing the business. I love these ideas. Let's ask Gemini to draft an email so we can easily share
these ideas with others. LLMs can help you brainstorm solutions for many different types of problems. I'm definitely excited
by the variety of ways we can leverage LLMs when
completing workplace tasks. It's a very important skill to practice if you wanna use AI
effectively in the workplace. Coming up, we'll focus
more on evaluating output and iterating on your prompt.