- Prompt engineering involves designing the best prompt you can to
get the output you want. Think about how you use
language in your daily life. Language is used for so many purposes: to build connections, express
opinions, or explain ideas. And sometimes, you
might wanna use language to prompt others to respond
in a particular way. Maybe you want someone to
give you a recommendation or clarify something. In those cases, the way
you phrase your words can affect how others respond. The same is true when prompting
a conversational AI tool with a question or request. A prompt is text input
that provides instructions to the AI model on how to generate output. For example, someone who
owns a clothing store might want an AI model to output new ideas for how to market their clothing. This business owner
might write the prompt: "I own a clothing store. We sell high fashion womenswear. Help me brainstorm marketing ideas." In this section of the course, you'll focus on how to design
or engineer effective prompts to achieve more useful results from a conversational AI tool. My name is Yufeng, and
I'm an engineer at Google. I first became interested in prompting because getting useful
responses from language models was time-consuming. Sometimes it was even
quicker for us to do the work without the use of AI. I was inspired to help our tools be more efficient, not less. I'm excited to help you learn more about developing effective prompts. First, you'll discover
how LLMs generate output in response to prompts. And then, you'll explore the
role of prompt engineering in improving the quality of the output. Prompt engineering is the practice of developing effective prompts
that elicit useful output from generative AI. You'll learn to create
clear and specific prompts, one of the most important
parts of prompt engineering. The more clear and specific your prompt, the more likely you are
to get useful output. Another important part of
prompt engineering is iteration. You'll learn about evaluating output and revising your prompts. This will also help you
get the results you need when leveraging conversational
AI tools in the workplace. We'll also explore a
specific prompting technique called few-shot prompting. Writing effective prompts involves critical thinking and creativity. It can also be a fun process, and it's a very important
skill to practice if you wanna use AI
effectively in the workplace. Are you excited to get
started on prompt engineering? Let's go.