- Hi, I am Rachna. I am a software engineer at Google. I work on a team called
Central Knowledge Management, and we're responsible for
making sure that developers have access to all the
information that they need. One of the most important things to learn about in AI is prompting, which is just figuring
out what text to input to get the response you want. One of the ways to find the
most effective prompts for LLMs, or large language models, is to just iterate rapidly on them and try a wide variety
of different prompts out. So maybe if it was not funny enough, the next time you could
try prompting the LLM to make it more funny. Or if it's too vague, you can use a prompt that specifically asks
the AI not to be vague. And trying out a lot of
different things this way will usually give you good results. One way you can change
how you're using LLMs to allow them to be more
creative or be more specific is just based on how
much context you put in. So if you want the LLM to give you a pretty creative response, you can just try a very short prompt. If you want it to be very specific, you can put in a lot of examples, and then it'll conform
more to your examples. Another technique that's
really interesting is chain-of-thought prompting, where you ask the model to
reason out its own response. So if you're asking the
model to follow some math, a mathematical equation, you can ask it to first
break it down into steps and then do the first step and then the second step and so on. And getting the LLM to do multiple steps can sometimes make it much more accurate. One slightly more unexpected
prompting technique that we use is asking the model to
react to its own responses. So sometimes I'll ask
the model for a response, and then I'll say, is this response vague? And then if it answers yes, then sometimes I'll
throw that response out. So I'll let it do some of
some of my work for me. The more you experiment and
the more creative you are, the better. Keeping up with AI can feel a little bit like running on a treadmill sometimes, and it's always getting faster and faster, and there's so many new
things that are changing, but I think that's also
what makes it really fun.