- It's helpful to understand how LLMs work and to be aware of their limitations. A large language model, or LLM, is an AI model that is
trained on large amounts of text to identify patterns
between words, concepts, and phrases, so that it can
generate responses to prompts. So how do LLMs learn to generate useful responses to prompts? An LLM is trained on
millions of sources of text, including books, articles,
websites, and more. This training helps the
model learn the patterns and relationships that
exist in human language. In general, the more high
quality data the model receives, the better its performance will be. Because LLMs can identify so
many patterns in language, they can also predict what word
is most likely to come next in a sequence of words. Consider a simple example
to get a basic understanding of how LLMs predict the
next word in a sequence. Take the incomplete sentence, "After it rained, the street was..." An LLM can predict what word comes next by computing the probabilities
for different possible words. Based on the available data, the word wet might have a high probability of being the next word. The word clean, a lower probability. And the word dry, an
extremely low probability. In this case, the LLM
might complete the sentence by inserting the word with
the highest probability of coming next in the sequence, wet. Or it might be another high
probability word like damp. An LLM may vary in its response to the same prompt each time you use it. LLMs use statistics to
analyze the relationships between all the words in a given sequence and compute the
probabilities for thousands of possible words to come
next in that sequence. This predictive power enables
LLMs to respond to questions and requests, whether the prompt is to complete a simple sentence or to develop a compelling story for a new product launch or ad campaign. Although LLMs are powerful, you may not always get
the output you want. Sometimes this is because of limitations in an LLM's training data. For instance, an LLMs output may be biased because the data it was
trained on contains bias. This data may include news articles and websites that reflect the unfair biases present in society. For example, because of
the data it was trained on, an LLM may be more
likely to produce output that associates a professional occupation with a specific gender role. The training data that informs an LLM can be limited in other ways as well. For instance, an LLM might not
generate sufficient content about a specific domain or topic because the data it was trained on does not contain enough
information about that topic. Another factor that can
affect output is the tendency of LLMs to hallucinate. Hallucinations are AI
outputs that are not true. While LLMs are good at responding
to many kinds of questions and instructions, they can
sometimes generate text that is factually inaccurate. Let's say you're researching a company and you use an LLM to help you summarize
the company's history. The LLM might hallucinate and provide incorrect
information about certain details such as the date the company was founded or the current number of employees. A number of factors can
contribute to hallucinations, such as the quality of
an LLM's training data, the phrasing of the prompt, or the method an LLM uses to analyze text and predict the next word in a sequence. Because of an LLM's
limitations, it's important that you critically
evaluate all LLM output to determine if it is factually
accurate, is unbiased, is relevant to your specific request, and provides sufficient information. Whether you're using AI to
summarize a lengthy report, generate ideas for marketing a product, or outlining a project plan, be sure to carefully check the
quality of the output. Finally, it's important not to make assumptions about
an LLM's capabilities. For example, just because it
produced high quality output for a persuasive letter to a customer, don't assume you will get the
same quality output if you use the same prompt again in the future. Large language models are powerful tools that require human
guidance for effective use. Being aware of an LLMs
limitations can help you achieve the best possible results.