- Hi, I'm Yufeng and I'm a
Developer Relations Engineer at Google Cloud. I am, but a small part
of a much larger team that focuses on creating
useful prompts for evaluation and to some degree, training of the models. I grew up in central Pennsylvania, in Hershey, Chocolate Town. And enjoyed kind of math
and sciences in high school, and then went to college at Johns Hopkins and studied biomedical engineering. When I graduated college,
the company that I worked for had a very extensive training program and they were specifically looking to hire non-computer science majors. And it wasn't like the normal
kind of workplace trainings that we think of today. It was like a super
compressed crash course. These days, we'd call it a
bootcamp or something like that, but that didn't exist back then. Prompt engineering is not something that necessarily will happen
through intuitive use. Doing prompting properly
is really going to help unlock the capabilities
of these conversational AI systems for you. Anybody can type in a simple prompt and get a simple answer back. But that's not where things
are really interesting, right? It's when you can talk
to a system and get a very tailored
and customized answer based exactly on your use case that things get really quite exciting. My advice for folks who are experimenting with these AI tools for the first time would be to not get discouraged if it doesn't produce the
results you want initially. These tools aren't magic and they can't read your minds. All they can do is take
exactly what you tell them and then try to do the best they can. There's kind of what I
think of as side context or implied context that
you need to practice getting it out of your head. You want it to be long,
you want it to be short. You want it to use simple
words, fancy words, like these sorts of things that you know, but you might not know you
need to write them down. I would encourage you to just try stuff. You can go wild with the experimentation. Try stuff. You can write a ton of information in or just like write a little bit, then write a little bit,
then write a little bit, and just see how it behaves differently. It becomes just this experimental system and this process is fun. As you experiment with this
and try new things out, you'll find that your fluidity and fluency with these conversational AI tools will be through the roof and you'll want to keep
trying different prompts. And who knows? Maybe it'll have a huge
impact on your life. Only time will tell.