- Although AI is a useful tool
to help you accomplish tasks, it requires human involvement. No AI tool has the depth of
experience, practical knowledge, and interactive skills that we do. Maintaining human oversight
over AI is critical. An effective strategy for doing so is a human-in-the-loop approach, which uses a combination of
machine and human intelligence to train, use, verify,
and refine AI models. Let's try this strategy. Consider this scenario. An insurance company
uses a custom AI solution to answer customer inquiries. When a customer sends a question to the company using their contact form, AI drafts an email response
based on specific words and phrases in the message. Then a customer service agent
reviews the customer inquiry and revises the email responses necessary before approving and
then sending the message. Later, the development team
can update the AI model based on the agent's feedback. Now, consider a business owner that's using a standalone AI tool to draft a new brand slogan. They prompt the tool
with specific keywords and phrases that they'd like
to feature in the slogan, and the tool generates a list of ideas. As the business owner reviews the output, they find a catchy option
that really stands out. However, it needs a little refinement to get the phrasing just right. So the business owner prompts the AI tool with a few extra details, and voila, they put together a catchy
new slogan for their business. Oversight is essential to ensure quality and accuracy when using AI tools. A human-in-the-loop approach
blends the efficiency of AI tools with human insight that's critical for
practicing responsible AI. Responsible AI is the
principle of developing and using AI ethically with
the intent of benefiting people and society while avoiding harm. It's important for businesses, customers, and employees alike to ensure
that they use AI responsibly. One aspect of responsible
AI involves managing the limitations of AI models
such as knowledge cutoff. Knowledge cutoff is the
concept that an AI model is trained at a specific point in time so it doesn't have any knowledge of events or information after that date. For example, imagine
you're a financial analyst and you need to prompt an AI tool to analyze yesterday's
stock market fluctuations. If the tool's last
training date was in 2022, it wouldn't be able to provide you with the information you asked for because it doesn't know about events or information beyond
its last training date. In situations like these,
well-designed AI tools should recognize their limitations
and respond accordingly. However, there are situations
when a tool might try to generate a response
despite its knowledge cutoff, leading to a hallucination. Hallucinations are AI
outputs that are not true. Hallucinations can be problematic because they can lead to
misinformation, misinterpretation, or inappropriate responses that might damage a company's reputation or result in customer dissatisfaction. For example, picture
working at a retail company using an AI tool to forecast how much product inventory to order. If the AI tool produces inaccurate, outdated, or misinterpreted information, those hallucinations
could lead the company to order the wrong amount of inventory causing supply issues for customers. While hallucinations can pose challenges, they can also be beneficial
to your creative process. Suppose you use an AI image generator to help you design concept art for a fantasy-themed video game. You prompt the AI tool to create an image of a beautiful castle floating in the sky, and it outputs a unique, fun image, which also happens to be a hallucination. In this example, you produced
a hallucination intentionally. However, hallucinations can be misleading when used in the wrong context. When using AI tools, it's important to apply a
human-in-the-loop approach. By reviewing and evaluating
AI-generated content, you can help mitigate the potential effects of hallucinations. This approach helps ensure that AI-generated outputs
are not only innovative, but also accurate, relevant, and ethical, enhancing outcomes for businesses, customers, and society as a whole.