- Hi, I'm Manvinder. I'm a director of product management in the AI team at Google. My job involves talking to
developers, talking to startups, talking to companies that are
using our AI technologies, understand their feedback, and then incorporate that
into the tools that we offer to them to build applications
using our AI tech. So one of the most amazing
things about generative AI is it can be used as a collaborative tool by almost everybody in
your day-to-day tasks. You know, anything from,
you know, writing memos, writing emails, creating slides, working on spreadsheets, doing research. It's just a great tool for
you to collaborate with. Another great use case for AI is for it to be your creative brainstorming partner. For example, I was recently
working with our marketing team and we were brainstorming strategies for marketing a particular product, and I used AI to just generate ideas. It gave us a lot of new ideas that maybe just me alone
would not have thought of. I'm using AI when I'm
creating graphics in slides, I'm using them to do long form writing. For example, if you're
writing a memo or an email or a blog post, AI just makes
it easier to get started, helps you overcome writer's block. I'm using AI to do
visualizations in spreadsheets, and of course, when I'm beginning
research on a new topic, I like to use AI to just
give me a head start. It is helping me be more efficient. It is helping me do
things in a better way. It is also helping me do new things. For example, about a year ago, me and my wife were
redesigning our kitchen and we decided to try
out Stable Diffusion, which is an open source
image generation model to create different styles of the kitchen that we wanted, combining
different cabinet styles and island styles. We really saw firsthand
how we could use the power of generative AI to to
solve common challenges that we face in our everyday lives. AI can often help you
become even better at the skills that you might possess. For example, if you often do
a lot of long form writing, AI can help you become more
efficient by giving you a head start and overcoming writer's
block, it can add more ideas to, you know, the memos you're writing, the emails you're writing,
the blogs you're writing. I'm excited about the applications
of AI in diverse fields. I'm also excited about
the massive challenges that we can solve as a
community, as an ecosystem. It will lead to productivity
improvements, it'll lead to new ways of doing things,
the potential of impact of AI is immense.