- There are all kinds of
ways to leverage AI tools and many of them are
readily available to you. Let's explore the different
ways that AI tools can be integrated into your work routine and how they can
streamline your workflows. As you might recall, an AI
tool is AI powered software that can automate or assist
users with a variety of tasks. In your role, you may come
across generative AI tools in a few different ways,
as stand-alone AI tools, as integrated AI features
or as custom solutions. A stand-alone AI tool
describes AI-powered software that's designed to be used on its own. Stand-alone AI tools
can be accessed online or downloaded to a device with
little or no technical setup. For example, Speeko is an AI speech coach designed to help you
communicate with confidence. Speeko uses AI to analyze your voice and give you feedback on how to improve your
communication skills in any setting, whether you're preparing
for online meetings or in-person presentations. Suppose you're preparing
for a job interview and want to practice answering
common interview questions. With Speeko, you can
record yourself responding to these questions, and
Speeko will give you feedback on aspects, like clarity,
pacing, and word choice, helping you learn how to
communicate more effectively during the actual interview. Speeko also gives you
personalized exercises to help you improve your skills. As another example, let's say, you want to create a new
image for a design project using a desktop app you already have. Instead of searching for a
stand-alone image generator, the desktop app might have
an integrated AI feature that can help you get the job done. An integrated AI feature refers
to a built-in enhancement to a particular piece of software. For example, Neural Filters is an AI tool that's built right into Adobe Photoshop. It lets you edit images
by blurring backgrounds, adjusting colors, changing
facial expressions, and much more. Stand-alone tools and integrated features are two common ways to use AI, but custom AI solutions
are also an option. A custom AI solution is an application that's tailormade to
solve a specific problem. For instance, in 2022,
Johns Hopkins Hospital implemented an AI solution to
help doctors detect sepsis, a condition where the body has an extreme response to an infection. This AI solution allowed
doctors to diagnose and treat patients up to six hours sooner than previously possible, leading to improved patient outcomes. AI models, like this, can
be rewarding to build, but they typically require
dedicated resources and buy-in from your
organization to produce. In this course, we'll focus mainly on stand-alone generative AI tools because they're readily
available, often free to use, and can easily fit in your workstream. Before using AI tools,
it's helpful to understand the technologies that
power them, AI models. An AI model is a computer
program trained on a set of data to recognize patterns and
perform specific tasks. Think of the AI model as the engine and the AI tool as the car. The model provides the
underlying capabilities while the tools interface
assists you in completing tasks. Whether you're using a stand-alone tool, an integrated feature, or a
custom solution in your work, remember that an AI tool
is powered by an AI model. Next up, we'll explore
how to effectively engage with AI tools to tackle a variety of tasks and boost your productivity.