- Hi, my name is Aleck and I'm an engineering
program manager here at Google and I'm on the central
knowledge management team. The aim of this department is to ensure that knowledge is not stale, that Googlers in particular
are not reading documents or working with tools
that are out of date, but just to ensure that, you know, the
information they're exposed to is current, up to date, and truly reflects on
what's going on internally. I definitely have a very
non-traditional path. Studied architecture in college. I was working in architecture
field for about five years. I think architecture helped me get better at establishing frameworks,
applying frameworks, and it's something that I can use now with my job as a program manager at Google to just making sure that things
are set up appropriately. And AI helps with that a lot, too, to help me analyze different things to ensure that projects can be successful. First thing I used it for was to better understand AI. (chuckles) I used AI to learn about AI (chuckles) and asked the AI for recommended
material to read as well. That was very useful. The advice I would have for people that want to use AI
tools for the first time is don't be afraid to use
it for something small and then, you know, work your way up. Try to find a task that
might be hard for you or maybe somewhat stressful or you're not really looking forward to it and see how you can leverage it. One example of how I use AI tools to make my life more easier,
especially with work, is starting off a document. That's like the hardest thing for me. Just getting the template started, having specific sections
and headings in there, leveraging AI is very useful and helpful and kind of helps me create a
more concise document as well. I use AI for ways to make
my work more efficient, whether it's me taking notes, email summarization, organizing emails, providing key points on
documents, planning for the week. During every meeting, I create
transcripts for meetings, and then I then use AI to help me create immediate action items, summarize the meeting, and provide me key
takeaways from the meeting. Saves me an hour to an
hour and a half of my time. And when things are
efficient and they move well, it makes work easier, it makes it more fulfilling, and that's something that is amazing and something that is very, very powerful.