- All the buzz surrounding AI can make it seem like the
hottest new tech trend. But the truth is, AI has
been around for a while. For example, have you ever wondered how streaming platforms
recommend videos you might like? This feature is brought to you by AI. For years, streaming
platforms have used AI tools to offer services like
recommendation systems that enhance the user experience. An AI tool refers to AI-powered software that can automate or assist
users with a variety of tasks. Examples of AI tools are everywhere, from GPS systems that suggest quick routes to translation systems that interpret conversations in real time. Companies of all shapes
and sizes use AI tools to streamline operations and improve the quality of
their products and services. While these AI tools can
seem naturally smart, it's important to recognize
that they're not self-taught. Instead, they're powered by what's known as machine learning. Machine learning, or ML, is a subset of AI focused on developing computer programs that can analyze data to make
decisions or predictions. ML is a specialized layer under the broader
category of AI technology. It's often used by AI tools to make sense of data
quickly and efficiently. AI designers build ML
programs using a training set, which is a collection of
data used to teach AI. Basically, training sets provide
ML programs with examples of what to expect and how
to respond appropriately. For example, consider a food distributor that uses an AI tool to sort and pack ripe
apples in their factory. For this tool to work, an
AI designer must first train an ML program to identify ripe apples. They would do this by
providing their ML program with a training set that
includes thousands of images of ripe and unripe apples. As the ML program processes these images, it eventually learns to
identify the features of ripe apples. Having learned to do this with ML, the AI tool can then identify ripe apples that weren't in its training set and help factory employees
work more efficiently. As I mentioned earlier,
many AI tools use ML to learn and improve their performance. However, for ML programs
to perform effectively, the quality and relevance of
their training data matter. A fundamental issue to be aware of is the potential for bias
within training data. This could unintentionally
cause an AI tool to produce inaccurate
or unintended outputs. For example, the AI tool that
was used to sort ripe apples might have learned from training data that only contain images of
specific types of red apples. This would unintentionally
make the AI less accurate at identifying ripe apples of varying sizes, shapes, or colors. The food producer might end
up sorting apples incorrectly, causing them to lose money and
waste perfectly good apples. When used appropriately, ML plays a key role in
advancing AI into the future. It's truly an incredible
and sophisticated technique with endless applications.