- Advancements in AI technology
are reshaping how we work. Let's explore one of the key developments at the center of this
transformation, generative AI. As the name suggests, generative AI is AI that can generate new content such as text, images, or other media. A unique quality of generative AI tools is that you can use them
with natural language. Natural language refers
to the way people talk or write when communicating
with each other. Here's a simplified overview of how a generative AI tool
works with natural language. First, you provide input. Input refers to any information or data that's sent to a
computer for processing. Many generative AI tools,
accept text and speeches input, and some also accept
images or video files. Next, the data is
processed by the AI tool. Then an output is generated
in the form of text, images, audio, or video. Generative AI and the ability to interact with computers using natural
language has introduced a world of possibilities for what
people can create with AI. For example, you might be
marketing a new business. You need fresh, engaging content
like a promotional poster to advertise a new product, but you don't have a creative team to bring your ideas to life. No need to stress. With a few instructions, generative AI can help
you create a poster. If the generated content
doesn't meet your expectations, you can provide additional instructions until it produces something
that meets your needs. This is just one example of how generative AI can
complement your skills, but there are many other ways it can benefit you and your work. For example, generative AI
can boost your productivity by helping you with tasks like
drafting replies to emails. It can help you avoid mistakes, and it can improve your
decision-making process by answering questions and
brainstorming ideas with you. Whether you work in healthcare,
education, finance, retail, or any other field,
there are a wide variety of generative AI tools that
can cater to your needs. One example is a conversational AI tool. A conversational AI tool
is a generative AI tool that processes text requests
and generates text responses. You can use it to brainstorm
ideas, answer questions, and boost your productivity. Throughout Google AI Essentials, you'll gain practical experience using a conversational AI
tool by Google called Gemini. Gemini can be used to get some creative inspiration
when you're feeling stuck, build on your ideas, and provide detailed explanations that help you explore topics easily. For example, let's ask
Gemini to brainstorm a list of team-bonding activities
for our summer work retreat. The AI tool responds with
a wide range of ideas from a fun beach party to
a relaxed pottery class. Gemini also share some additional tips to consider when planning
a successful work retreat. Generative AI has paved the
way to exciting new frontiers, but before we can tap
into what this technology has to offer, it's essential
to investigate the capabilities and limitations of AI as a whole. Continue to the next part of
this lesson to get started.