- Ever wondered how to
turn your busy workday into an orderly operation? Let's consider the incredible
ways AI can enhance your day-to-day processes. When we use AI at work,
embracing a people-first strategy is essential. AI enhances our unique
human skills and simplifies many of the tasks that we perform. Essentially, AI augments
our own capabilities. In this context, AI augmentation
refers to the process of using AI to improve a work product, whether by making it easier
to do or higher in quality. For example, think of
your own job or a job you might have held in the past. Like mine, your job probably consists of a variety of tasks and duties. Some of the tasks might be
simple, like manually responding to routine questions over email. Other tasks might be more complex, like brainstorming new
ideas with coworkers. AI can help you with many of these things by augmenting the work you
do, helping you complete the task quicker and more efficiently. Another way AI can help
you to do your work is through automation. AI automation refers to
the process of using AI to accomplish tasks without
any action on the user's part. For example, maybe a customer
support representative receives hundreds of emails every day from customers asking for help. They might spend a lot of
time reading each email and typing responses one at a time. Using an AI tool, they
could automatically sort incoming emails by priority. For emails with low priority, they could use AI to draft replies. With some guidance from
other customer support agents or training data containing past replies, the AI could learn to quickly generate quality email responses. By automating this task, the
representative could then focus on high-priority messages,
like ones reporting complex issues that
require personal attention. Striking the right balance
between augmentation and automation takes time, practice, and thoughtful consideration. Successful businesses
can set themselves apart by applying a people-first approach to AI and their products, services, and jobs. Think of AI as a collaborative workspace that thrives on diverse perspectives. Consider a public relations
professional who wants to use AI to assist in the creation
of press releases. To make sure they get an optimal result, they need to provide human
oversight of the AI tool. But it shouldn't stop there. It's essential that they also
collaborate with other members of their team, such as managers
who can coordinate resources for the project, members of
the editorial team to ensure that the releases are
representative of the brand's voice, and guidance from the
legal department to ensure appropriate rules and
regulations are followed. Everyone has to cooperate
to integrate AI successfully and to make sure the
tools' generated output meets expectations. Integrating AI at work must
be an inclusive process. It requires diverse
perspectives from people across different roles and departments to achieve the best results. It's critical to learn and adapt as AI is introduced into the workplace. By taking the time to understand AI and how it can provide
benefits in your work, you can effectively
contribute to the discussion.