- Join me as we uncover the ways AI can enhance your career and life. There's a big shift happening
in the modern workplace, and AI is at the forefront of
this exciting transformation. Just as the internet forever changed the way we approach everyday tasks, AI has the potential to transform the way we work and live. AI stands for artificial intelligence. It's a practical solution for making routine tasks
less time consuming. Learning to use AI effectively in your job can help you to accomplish your goals and set you up for success in
the evolving work landscape. For example, consider a
typical day at your work. If it's anything like mine, you have a lot of tasks to complete. Some days your to-do list
might seem never ending, but what if AI could help? For instance, instead of spending hours reviewing spreadsheets, AI can help you analyze
the information in seconds. It can also draft a detailed
sales report highlighting key insights to share with your team. AI can schedule meetings for you, create engaging presentations, enhance your brainstorming sessions, and take on a variety of other tasks that will shorten your to-do list. Whether you're curious to
learn the basics of AI, interested in making routine tasks easier or focused on enhancing your skillset. We've designed Google
AI Essentials to help. Hi, my name is Maya and
I'm the Vice President of Strategy and Operations
at Google Research. In my role, I lead a team that helps Google achieve its mission by accelerating research and fostering an exceptional research environment. I'm thrilled to be your
guide on this journey to explore this technology that's reshaping the business world, AI. Throughout the course,
you'll have the opportunity to learn from a diverse group of AI experts at Google whose role span from program management to directors of AI products and services. They'll each share their insights into AI and how it can elevate your
work and advance your career. Google AI Essentials is
designed to fit your schedule. You can complete it at
your own pace all online and no previous AI
experience is necessary. This course will include
videos from Google employees who work in AI, readings to help deepen your understanding of concepts, and interactive activities that give you practical
experience working with AI. At the end of the course,
you'll have the opportunity to earn a skill badge that can
be displayed on your resume, social media profiles,
and email signature. If you're new to AI, you may
have many unanswered questions. You might wonder, "How
do I engage with AI tools to boost my productivity? How do I apply AI responsibly in my job? Or how should I prepare for the future of AI in the workplace?" In Google AI Essentials, we'll address each of
those questions and more. I hope you're excited to join me as we uncover the ways AI can
enhance your career in life. Let's get started.