- Hi, I'm Vint, vice president and chief internet evangelist at Google. Some people think of me as famous. I don't. I think of me as lucky. I had the good fortune of
being the one of the people who started the design
of the internet in 1973. And since that time, my entire career has been strongly related to internet and its evolution. So people ask me, what is
a chief internet evangelist and why does the internet
need an evangelist at all? And the answer to that is that only about two thirds of
the world's population are actually online and able to access all the treasures and
riches of the internet. And so, the chief internet evangelist is still running around the world, encouraging people to build more internet so everyone can have access. I've been around in the AI space for almost all of its existence because the notion of
artificial intelligence goes all the way back to the 1960s. So, let's talk a little bit
about the way in which AI can be used in crisis situations like wildfires and things like that. In nine different countries, Google's services are
being used, the SOS alerts, to detect and to alert
geographically about wildfires. So, we are starting to see raw material going into the artificial
intelligence algorithms to help us anticipate what
a fire is going to do. And that will help the
forest fire response and will certainly help
get people out of buildings if they are, in fact, at risk. Another example comes from one
of our sister organizations, DeepMind, which trained
a machine learning system to learn how to fold proteins that are generated by the
interpretation of DNA. And the reason that's so important is that those molecules may turn out to be the key to solving various kinds
of genetic diseases. I mean, I get really excited
about stuff like that. AI literacy is really about
not the absolute details, exactly how does this work? Not everyone needs to know how a car is constructed to use it. We want people to have a conscious sense of both the power and peril
of artificial intelligence. I think in the long run, as we learn how to use these
techniques better and better and more reliably, that it
will have a dramatic impact on almost all walks of life. It will enhance our
ability to do research. Every student might have
a personal tutor, in fact. Creative people, who are
trying to create text and film, video and imagery,
will have a palette and a tool far more capable than a paintbrush in order to invent and create. And so, in the same way
that the worldwide web has turned out to be such a huge platform for creativity and innovation, I think the AI world will
induce a similar kind of effect.