- Hi, my name is Jalon. This is my sign name, Jalon. I have worked at Google for
a little over three years now as a research analyst, on the responsible AI Human-centric
Technology department. Part of my job is really
just being able to continue to advocate for the Black deaf community and making sure that
the community is heard. A majority of my time in
my job is really dealing with product and tools that
may not work for myself and analyzing how we can
improve to make it better. We want to make sure that
every individual are included when AI and products are being developed, to make sure that there are no unconscious bias
involved in the process. Right now, I am responsible for leading a project called Understanding
Black Deaf Users. In this project, the
goal is to really collect the Black deaf experience and understand what it's like for them when products and AI
is not working for them and what that looks like. It's very important because if you look in right now in today's society and if you look at all
the different industries who are trying to shift their focus on ASL and sign language recognition, but they are forgetting about
the Black deaf community too. I have had few people
know people who would say, "I can't even use the product for myself." And if we have left out
one person or two people, we still have a lot more work to do. AI really can help improve the
life for the deaf community. For example, when we think
about the deaf community, their language is sign language. But what happens when you
come across a community or a population that
doesn't know sign language? AI has the ability to
bridge the communication to make sure that they are effective and efficient communication. But it's very important to
make sure that we're including as many represents involved so that AI is accurate at all times. The more data we have, the more accurate the experience will be for all who will be feeling included. You have Black deaf experts right now to advocate for the Black deaf
community to be hired too. As you are taking this AI course and thinking about how you can
make an impact in the world, it's gonna be very important that not only learning
an understanding of AI and machine learning too, but AI is going to require you to have to really think outside yourself. AI is not just for one person, it's for a huge population
that we're trying to reach to make sure that everyone feel included.