- Make sure that you use AI responsibly, ethically and for good outcomes. Hello! I'm excited to introduce
you to new concepts that will help you learn
how to use AI responsibly. Learning to use AI
responsibly is a crucial part of experimenting with and
using this technology. Responsible AI is the
principle of developing and using AI ethically with
the intent of benefiting people and society, while avoiding harm. To ensure people are treated
fairly and respectfully, AI users must be aware of
the limitations of AI tools and commit to using them ethically. An AI user is someone who leverages AI to complete a personal
or professional task, like editing copy for
a marketing campaign, brainstorming ideas for
a nonprofit fundraiser, or discovering more effective ways to use a particular technology. AI can perform many tasks that help make work more
productive, efficient, or engaging. But AI, to be clear, is not perfect. Humans are creative,
logical and compassionate. We have critical reasoning abilities and contextual understanding
of our environment that AI systems lack. Consider how the autopilot
feature functions in an airplane. Autopilot navigates
from point A to point B, but the plane still needs a human pilot to make complex decisions. For instance, if weather forces the plane to make an emergency landing, the pilot will be the one
to manage that situation and safely land the plane. In this scenario, autopilot is the system and the pilot is the user. Autopilot can handle a lot
of the more technical aspects of keeping the plane in the air, but generally, flying the plane safely is the responsibility of the pilots. Similarly, AI tools can help with many basic tasks in the workplace. AI can be used to brainstorm
ideas for a new product, outline a press release, suggest questions to ask during
a focus group and much more, but it cannot perform higher level tasks like giving personalized
performance feedback to an employee or making a judgment about
which candidate to hire or providing therapy to a patient. AI works best when used as a complement to our uniquely human
skills and abilities. As a member of the
Responsible Innovation Team, I use my human abilities
to connect with colleagues, motivate teammates and drive
innovation responsibly. My name is Emilio and
I'm going to help you learn about what using
AI responsibly means. In this section of the course,
you'll learn about the biases that exist in AI models. Then, you'll examine the types of harms that are associated with AI and the importance of
pairing the use of AI with human abilities
like critical thinking and responsible decision-making. Finally, you'll discover some
tips for maintaining privacy and security while experimenting
with or using AI tools. Let's get started.